getting-started-guides/csp/aws/ec2.md, before:

# Get Started with XGBoost4J-Spark 3.0 on AWS EC2
This is a getting started guide to Spark 3.0 on AWS EC2. At the end of this guide, the reader will be able to run a sample Apache Spark application that runs on NVIDIA GPUs on AWS EC2.

For more details of AWS EC2 and get started, please check the [AWS document](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/getting-started/).

### Configure and Launch AWS EC2

Go to AWS Management Console select a region, e.g. Oregon, and click EC2 service.

##### Step 1:  Launch New Instance

Click "Launch instance" at the EC2 Management Console, and select "Launch instance".

![Step 1:  Launch New Instance](pics/ec2_step1.png)

##### Step 2:  Configure Instance

###### Step 2.1: Choose an Amazon Machine Image(AMI)

Search for "deep learning base ami", choose "Deep Learning Base AMI (Ubuntu 18.04)". Click "Select".

![Step 2.1: Choose an Amazon Machine Image(AMI)](pics/ec2_step2-1.png)

###### Step 2.2: Choose an Instance Type

Choose type "p3.2xlarge". Click "Next: Configure Instance Details" at right buttom. 

![Step 2.1: Choose an Instance Type](pics/ec2_step2-2.png)

###### Step 2.3: Configure Instance Detials

Do not need to change anything here, make sure "Number of instances" is 1. Click "Next: Add Storage" at right buttom.

![Step 2.3: Configure Instance Detials](pics/ec2_step2-3.png)

###### Step 2.4: Add Storage

Change the root disk size based on your needed, also you can add ebs volume by clicking "Add New Volume". In this sample, we use default 50G. Click "Next: Add Tag" at right buttom.

For more details of AWS EBS please check the [AWS document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AmazonEBS.html).

![Step 2.4: Add Storage](pics/ec2_step2-4.png)

###### Step 2.5: Add Tags

You can add tag here or skip. In this sample, we will skip it. Click "Next: Configure Security Group" at right buttom.

###### Step 2.6: Configure Security Group

For convenience, in this sample, we open all ports. You can add your own rules. 

Create a new security group and select type as "All traffic". Click "Review and Launch" at right buttom.

For more details of security group, please check the [AWS document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-security-groups.html).

![Step 2.6: Configure Security Group](pics/ec2_step2-6.png)

###### Step 2.7: Review Instance Launch

Review your configuration. Click "Launch" at right buttom. Choose the key-pair you have and launch instances.

Return "instances | EC2 Managemnt Console", you can find your instance running. (It may take a few minutes to initialize)

![Step 2.7: Review Instance Launch](pics/ec2_step2-7.png)

### Launch EC2 and Configure Spark 3.0

##### Step 1:  Launch EC2

Copy "Public DNS (IPv4)" of your instance 
Use ssh with your private key to launch the EC2 machine as user "ubuntu"

```
ssh -i "key.pem" ubuntu@xxxx.region.compute.amazonaws.com
```

##### Step 2: Download Spark package

Download spark package and set environment variable.

```
# download the spark
wget https://downloads.apache.org/spark/spark-3.0.0-preview2/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2.tgz
tar zxf spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2.tgz
export SPARK_HOME=/your/spark/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2
```

##### Step 3: Download jars for S3A (optional)

If your dataset is on S3, you should download below jar files to enable the accessing of S3. In this sample, we will use data on S3.
The jars should under $SPARK_HOME/jars

```
cd $SPARK_HOME/jars
wget https://github.com/JodaOrg/joda-time/releases/download/v2.10.5/joda-time-2.10.5.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/hadoop/hadoop-aws/3.2.0/hadoop-aws-3.2.0.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-core/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-core-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-dynamodb/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-dynamodb-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-s3/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-s3-1.11.687.jar
```

##### Step 4: Start Spark Standalone
###### Step 4.1: Create getGpusResources.sh

Create getGpusResources.sh with below content. You may need to change permission of this file in order to start Spark.
```
#! /bin/bash
 
ADDRS=`nvidia-smi --query-gpu=index --format=csv,noheader | sed -e ':a' -e 'N' -e'$!ba' -e 's/\n/","/g'`
echo {\"name\": \"gpu\", \"addresses\":[\"$ADDRS\"]}
```

###### Step 4.2: Edit spark-defualt.conf
cd $SPARK_HOME/conf and edit spark-defaults.conf

By default, thers is only spark-defaults.conf.template in $SPARK_HOME/conf, you could edit it and rename to spark-defaults.conf

```
spark.worker.resource.gpu.amount 1   # Must have, specify how many GPUs the worker has, Obviously, it should be <= the physical GPU number
spark.worker.resource.gpu.discoveryScript /path/to/getGpusResources.sh
```

###### Step 4.3: Start Spark Standalone
Start Spark. Default master-spark-URL is spark://$HOSTNAME:7077 . 

```
$SPARK_HOME/sbin/start-master.sh
$SPARK_HOME/sbin/start-slave.sh <master-spark-URL>
```
### Launch XGBoost-Spark examples on Spark 3.0
##### Step 1: Download Jars

**Note: The URLs of jars is still in process, this step may change in future.**

URLs of jars:
* xgboost4j:           http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/xgboost4j_3.0/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/
* xgboost4j-spark: http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/xgboost4j-spark_3.0/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/
* cudf:                    http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/cudf/0.14-SNAPSHOT/
* rapids-plugin:      http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/rapids-4-spark/0.1-preview2-SNAPSHOT/
* example apps:    http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/sample_xgboost_apps/0.2.2-SNAPSHOT/

Download latest version with wget

Make sure your cudf is fit to your cuda version. You could use following command to check.
```
ls -l /usr/local/cuda
```

Copy cudf and rapids-plugin jar to $SPARK_HOME/jars


##### Step 2: Create sample running script
Create running run.sh script with below content, make sure change the paths in it to your own. Also your aws key/secret.

```
#!/bin/bash

export SPARK_HOME=/your/path/to/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2

export PATH=$SPARK_HOME/bin:$SPARK_HOME/sbin:$PATH

export TOTAL_CORES=8
export NUM_EXECUTORS=1
export NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES=$((${TOTAL_CORES}/${NUM_EXECUTORS}))

export S3A_CREDS_USR=your_aws_key

export S3A_CREDS_PSW=your_aws_secret

export JAR_PATH=/your/path/to/jars

export JARS=$JAR_PATH/xgboost4j-spark_3.0-1.0.0.jar,$JAR_PATH/xgboost4j_3.0-1.0.0.jar

spark-submit --master spark://$HOSTNAME:7077 \
        --deploy-mode client \
        --driver-memory 10G \
        --executor-memory 22G \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.impl=org.apache.hadoop.fs.s3a.S3AFileSystem \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.access.key=$S3A_CREDS_USR \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.secret.key=$S3A_CREDS_PSW \
        --conf spark.executor.memoryOverhead=28G \
        --conf spark.cores.max=$TOTAL_CORES \
        --conf spark.executor.cores=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES \
        --conf spark.task.cpus=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES \
        --conf spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes=4294967296 \
        --conf spark.yarn.maxAppAttempts=1 \
        --conf spark.sql.extensions=ai.rapids.spark.SQLExecPlugin \
        --conf spark.plugins=ai.rapids.spark.SQLPlugin \
        --conf spark.rapids.memory.gpu.pooling.enabled=false \
        --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
        --conf spark.task.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
        --jars $JARS \
        --class ai.rapids.spark.examples.mortgage.GPUMain \
        $JAR_PATH/sample_xgboost_apps-0.2.2.jar \
        -num_workers=${NUM_EXECUTORS} \
        -format=csv \
        -dataPath="train::s3a://spark-xgboost-mortgage-dataset/csv/train/2000Q1" \
        -dataPath="trans::s3a://spark-xgboost-mortgage-dataset/csv/eval/2000Q1" \
        -numRound=100 -max_depth=8 -nthread=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES -showFeatures=0 \
        -tree_method=gpu_hist
```
##### Step 4: Submit Sample job
Run run.sh

```
./run.sh
```

After running successfully, the job will print an accuracy benchmark for model prediction.

Commit message:

Add executable permission to getGpusResources.sh

getting-started-guides/csp/aws/ec2.md, after:

# Get Started with XGBoost4J-Spark 3.0 on AWS EC2
This is a getting started guide to Spark 3.0 on AWS EC2. At the end of this guide, the reader will be able to run a sample Apache Spark application that runs on NVIDIA GPUs on AWS EC2.

For more details of AWS EC2 and get started, please check the [AWS document](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/getting-started/).

### Configure and Launch AWS EC2

Go to AWS Management Console select a region, e.g. Oregon, and click EC2 service.

##### Step 1:  Launch New Instance

Click "Launch instance" at the EC2 Management Console, and select "Launch instance".

![Step 1:  Launch New Instance](pics/ec2_step1.png)

##### Step 2:  Configure Instance

###### Step 2.1: Choose an Amazon Machine Image(AMI)

Search for "deep learning base ami", choose "Deep Learning Base AMI (Ubuntu 18.04)". Click "Select".

![Step 2.1: Choose an Amazon Machine Image(AMI)](pics/ec2_step2-1.png)

###### Step 2.2: Choose an Instance Type

Choose type "p3.2xlarge". Click "Next: Configure Instance Details" at right buttom. 

![Step 2.1: Choose an Instance Type](pics/ec2_step2-2.png)

###### Step 2.3: Configure Instance Detials

Do not need to change anything here, make sure "Number of instances" is 1. Click "Next: Add Storage" at right buttom.

![Step 2.3: Configure Instance Detials](pics/ec2_step2-3.png)

###### Step 2.4: Add Storage

Change the root disk size based on your needed, also you can add ebs volume by clicking "Add New Volume". In this sample, we use default 50G. Click "Next: Add Tag" at right buttom.

For more details of AWS EBS please check the [AWS document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AmazonEBS.html).

![Step 2.4: Add Storage](pics/ec2_step2-4.png)

###### Step 2.5: Add Tags

You can add tag here or skip. In this sample, we will skip it. Click "Next: Configure Security Group" at right buttom.

###### Step 2.6: Configure Security Group

For convenience, in this sample, we open all ports. You can add your own rules. 

Create a new security group and select type as "All traffic". Click "Review and Launch" at right buttom.

For more details of security group, please check the [AWS document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-security-groups.html).

![Step 2.6: Configure Security Group](pics/ec2_step2-6.png)

###### Step 2.7: Review Instance Launch

Review your configuration. Click "Launch" at right buttom. Choose the key-pair you have and launch instances.

Return "instances | EC2 Managemnt Console", you can find your instance running. (It may take a few minutes to initialize)

![Step 2.7: Review Instance Launch](pics/ec2_step2-7.png)

### Launch EC2 and Configure Spark 3.0

##### Step 1:  Launch EC2

Copy "Public DNS (IPv4)" of your instance 
Use ssh with your private key to launch the EC2 machine as user "ubuntu"

```
ssh -i "key.pem" ubuntu@xxxx.region.compute.amazonaws.com
```

##### Step 2: Download Spark package

Download spark package and set environment variable.

```
# download the spark
wget https://downloads.apache.org/spark/spark-3.0.0-preview2/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2.tgz
tar zxf spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2.tgz
export SPARK_HOME=/your/spark/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2
```

##### Step 3: Download jars for S3A (optional)

If your dataset is on S3, you should download below jar files to enable the accessing of S3. In this sample, we will use data on S3.
The jars should under $SPARK_HOME/jars

```
cd $SPARK_HOME/jars
wget https://github.com/JodaOrg/joda-time/releases/download/v2.10.5/joda-time-2.10.5.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/hadoop/hadoop-aws/3.2.0/hadoop-aws-3.2.0.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-core/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-core-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-dynamodb/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-dynamodb-1.11.687.jar
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/amazonaws/aws-java-sdk-s3/1.11.687/aws-java-sdk-s3-1.11.687.jar
```

##### Step 4: Start Spark Standalone
###### Step 4.1: Create getGpusResources.sh

Create getGpusResources.sh with below content. You may need to change permission of this file in order to start Spark.
```
#! /bin/bash
 
ADDRS=`nvidia-smi --query-gpu=index --format=csv,noheader | sed -e ':a' -e 'N' -e'$!ba' -e 's/\n/","/g'`
echo {\"name\": \"gpu\", \"addresses\":[\"$ADDRS\"]}
```

Then add executable permission to this file.
```
chmod +x getGpusResources.sh
```

###### Step 4.2: Edit spark-defualt.conf
cd $SPARK_HOME/conf and edit spark-defaults.conf

By default, thers is only spark-defaults.conf.template in $SPARK_HOME/conf, you could edit it and rename to spark-defaults.conf

```
spark.worker.resource.gpu.amount 1   # Must have, specify how many GPUs the worker has, Obviously, it should be <= the physical GPU number
spark.worker.resource.gpu.discoveryScript /path/to/getGpusResources.sh
```

###### Step 4.3: Start Spark Standalone
Start Spark. Default master-spark-URL is spark://$HOSTNAME:7077 . 

```
$SPARK_HOME/sbin/start-master.sh
$SPARK_HOME/sbin/start-slave.sh <master-spark-URL>
```
### Launch XGBoost-Spark examples on Spark 3.0
##### Step 1: Download Jars

**Note: The URLs of jars is still in process, this step may change in future.**

URLs of jars:
* xgboost4j:           http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/xgboost4j_3.0/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/
* xgboost4j-spark: http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/xgboost4j-spark_3.0/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/
* cudf:                    http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/cudf/0.14-SNAPSHOT/
* rapids-plugin:      http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/rapids-4-spark/0.1-preview2-SNAPSHOT/
* example apps:    http://gpuwa.nvidia.com/artifactory/sw-spark-maven/ai/rapids/sample_xgboost_apps/0.2.2-SNAPSHOT/

Download latest version with wget

Make sure your cudf is fit to your cuda version. You could use following command to check.
```
ls -l /usr/local/cuda
```

Copy cudf and rapids-plugin jar to $SPARK_HOME/jars


##### Step 2: Create sample running script
Create running run.sh script with below content, make sure change the paths in it to your own. Also your aws key/secret.

```
#!/bin/bash

export SPARK_HOME=/your/path/to/spark-3.0.0-preview2-bin-hadoop3.2

export PATH=$SPARK_HOME/bin:$SPARK_HOME/sbin:$PATH

export TOTAL_CORES=8
export NUM_EXECUTORS=1
export NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES=$((${TOTAL_CORES}/${NUM_EXECUTORS}))

export S3A_CREDS_USR=your_aws_key

export S3A_CREDS_PSW=your_aws_secret

export JAR_PATH=/your/path/to/jars

export JARS=$JAR_PATH/xgboost4j-spark_3.0-1.0.0.jar,$JAR_PATH/xgboost4j_3.0-1.0.0.jar

spark-submit --master spark://$HOSTNAME:7077 \
        --deploy-mode client \
        --driver-memory 10G \
        --executor-memory 22G \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.impl=org.apache.hadoop.fs.s3a.S3AFileSystem \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.access.key=$S3A_CREDS_USR \
        --conf spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.secret.key=$S3A_CREDS_PSW \
        --conf spark.executor.memoryOverhead=28G \
        --conf spark.cores.max=$TOTAL_CORES \
        --conf spark.executor.cores=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES \
        --conf spark.task.cpus=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES \
        --conf spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes=4294967296 \
        --conf spark.yarn.maxAppAttempts=1 \
        --conf spark.sql.extensions=ai.rapids.spark.SQLExecPlugin \
        --conf spark.plugins=ai.rapids.spark.SQLPlugin \
        --conf spark.rapids.memory.gpu.pooling.enabled=false \
        --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
        --conf spark.task.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
        --jars $JARS \
        --class ai.rapids.spark.examples.mortgage.GPUMain \
        $JAR_PATH/sample_xgboost_apps-0.2.2.jar \
        -num_workers=${NUM_EXECUTORS} \
        -format=csv \
        -dataPath="train::s3a://spark-xgboost-mortgage-dataset/csv/train/2000Q1" \
        -dataPath="trans::s3a://spark-xgboost-mortgage-dataset/csv/eval/2000Q1" \
        -numRound=100 -max_depth=8 -nthread=$NUM_EXECUTOR_CORES -showFeatures=0 \
        -tree_method=gpu_hist
```
##### Step 4: Submit Sample job
Run run.sh

```
./run.sh
```

After running successfully, the job will print an accuracy benchmark for model prediction.
